Add docs about Android file handling via intent filters (#865)
AvaloniaUI/avalonia-docs: docs/guides/platforms/android/intent-filter.md

---
id: intent-filter
title: Register your app to open files
---

# Register your app to open files

Android allows an app to register as a file or protocol handler. This guide shows how to register an Avalonia app to handle text files and how to receive them via Avalonia's storage framework.

1. Add an intent filter to your activity. Using the attribute registers the filter in the manifest automatically.

2. Attach a listener to the `IAvaloniaActivity.Activated` event. It will be raised with `FileActivatedEventArgs` when the user selected your app to open a file.

> 3. Forward the received storage items into your application/view model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Forward the received storage items to your application and view model.

When Android activates your app to open a file, the `HandleIntent` method receives an object containing the files. The handler extracts the files and passes them to your App class, which then passes them to the view model for processing.
```

```csharp
[Activity(
    Label = "Demo.Android",
    Theme = "@style/MyTheme.NoActionBar",
    Icon = "@drawable/icon",
    MainLauncher = true,
    ConfigurationChanges = ConfigChanges.Orientation | ConfigChanges.ScreenSize | ConfigChanges.UiMode)]
[IntentFilter(["android.intent.action.VIEW"],
    Categories = [Intent.CategoryDefault, Intent.CategoryBrowsable],
    DataSchemes = ["file", "content"],
    DataMimeType = "text/plain",
    DataPathPattern = ".*\\.txt")]
public class MainActivity : AvaloniaMainActivity<App>
{
    public MainActivity()
    {
        ((IAvaloniaActivity)this).Activated += HandleIntent;
    }

    private static void HandleIntent(object? sender, ActivatedEventArgs e)
    {
        if (e is FileActivatedEventArgs fileActivated && Avalonia.Application.Current is App app)
        {
            app.OpenFiles(fileActivated.Files);
        }
    }
}
```

```csharp
public partial class App : Application
{
    private MainViewModel? mainViewModel;

    public void OpenFiles(IReadOnlyList<IStorageItem> files)
    {
        mainViewModel?.OpenFiles(files);
    }

>     // override Initialize()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
